Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel | Digital Logistics Capacity Assessments
Skip to main content
Search
Select your language
العربية
中文
English
Français
Português
Русский
Español
Rwanda
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Export to PDF
Home
Show Navigation
Hide Navigation
Rwanda
Rwanda - 1 Country Profile
Rwanda - 1.1 Humanitarian Background
Rwanda - 1.2 Regulatory Departments & Quality Control
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.3 Kamembe National Airport
2.2.4 Rwanda Ruhengeri National Airport
Rwanda - 2.3 Road Network
Rwanda - 2.4 Railway Assessment
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Rwanda - 3.3 Manual Labor
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Rwanda - 4.1 Government Contact List
Rwanda - 4.2 Humanitarian Agency Contact List
Rwanda - 4.3 Laboratory and Quality Testing Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.4 Ports and Waterways Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.8 Transporter Contact List
Rwanda - 4.9 Railway Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.10 Supplier Contact List
Rwanda - 4.11 Additional Services Contact List
5 Rwanda Annexes
Rwanda - 5.1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
Fuel Overview
Currently, Rwanda imports all its petroleum products requirements from abroad since there is no local production. The consumption of petroleum in Rwanda stands at 23 million litres per month. This constitutes about 20% of total national imports and has been steadily rising in the past five years, with an average annual increase of 12 per cent.
The main policy objective for the sub-sector is to ensure safe, sufficient, reliable, sustainable and affordable supply of petroleum product. This entails boosting investments in supply and storage infrastructure.
In order to address current sub-sector challenges, the Rwanda Energy Policy reinforces the implementation of existing sub-sector policies through the following objectives:
Accelerate regional cooperation and strategic infrastructure development to reduce the costs of procurement, transportation and storage of petroleum products.
Project:
Eldoret-Kampala-Kigali petroleum pipeline: the Governments of Rwanda, Kenya and Uganda have agreed   to promote investment for the extension of petroleum pipeline from Eldoret in Kenya to Kampala and Kigali. Feasibility study has been commissioned in 2014. Fund mobilization through the private sector is ongoing.
Ensure security of petroleum supply by ensuring adequate storage infrastructure and adequate strategic reserves:
Ensure adequate storage infrastructure: currently Rwanda petroleum storage infrastructure essentially consists of government and private sector owned fuel depots equivalent to 72,000,000 litres as per table below:
The downstream infrastructure of petroleum including storage depots, petrol service stations, import transmission, distribution, and trade of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) is regulated by RURA.
Additional information on the role of RURA can be obtained on the
Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority Website
.
The oil companies are required to keep 10,000 m³ of operational stock to ensure that there is sufficient petroleum supply within the country. Storage facilities are located at: Kigali, Gisenyi, Gatsatsa, and Butare. There are three facilities of 3,660 m³ each at Gatsatsa and two facilities of 1,950 m³ at Butare.
For more info on fuel transport, fuel price and fuel depots, please visit the
Rwanda Ministry of Trade and Industry Website
.
For more information on government and fuel provider contact details, please see the following links:
4.1 Government Contact List
Information may also be found at:
http://www.mytravelcost.com/petrol-prices/
which is updated monthly.
Fuel Pricing
Fuel prices are regulated by the Government of Rwanda through the Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (RURA), which has the mandate to regulate certain public Utilities, namely: telecommunications network and/or services, electricity, water, removal of waste products from residential or business premises, extraction and distribution of gas and transport of goods and persons.
The price of other petroleum products is not controlled. The government's oil price policy is used to keep the selling prices constant while adapting the level of taxation to compensate for changes in the world market.
As of 16 September 2022, the average price of diesel and gasoline around the world is 1.29 US$ / litre. (Source:
Global Petrol Prices
)
Fuel Prices per Litre as of 22092022
(Local currency and USD - $)
Petrol
1,609 Rwf / 1.56 US$
Diesel
1,607 Rwf / 1.56 US$
Paraffin
400.54 Rwf/ 0.388 US$
Jet A-1
3137 Rwf/ $3.04 US$
Seasonal Variations
Variations in supply may occur if there are problems with the supply or availability of fuel from the fuel sourcing countries: Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania.
Seasonal Variations
Are there national priorities in the availability of fuel? (i.e. are there restrictions or priorities for the provision of fuel such as to the military?)
Yes
Is there a rationing system?
No
Is fuel to lower income / vulnerable groups subsidized?
No
Can the local industry expand fuel supply to meet humanitarian needs?
Yes
Is it possible for a humanitarian organization to directly contract a reputable supplier / distributor to provide its fuel needs?
Yes
Fuel Transportation
Internal transportation of fuel in Rwanda is carried out by trucks from Kenya (Nairobi and Eldoret) and Dar es Salaam. The supply is relatively constant and can meet the local demand. However, there have been reports of limited storage capacity for fuel in the country. To address that issue, the Government partnered with private oil dealers to have reserves of up to 150 million litres. In 2015, Societe Petroliere LTD has completed the construction of 21 million litres capacity in Rusororo Sector, Gasabo District, in Kigali where the inland terminal for the proposed Eldoret-Kampala-Kigali pipeline for refined petroleum products will be located. Other companies that have already embarked on storage construction include Abbarci Petroleum Marketing (ABBARCI), Oryx Petroleum, Protek and Mont Meru Petroleum Rwanda. The existing capacity 30 million litres will be significantly increased by the year 2017. (Source:
The New Times
)
Standards, Quality and Testing
Industry Control Measures
Do tanks have adequate protection against water mixing with the fuel?
Yes
Are there filters in the system which monitor where fuel is loaded into aircraft?
Yes
Is there adequate epoxy coating of tanks on trucks?
Yes
Is there a presence of suitable firefighting equipment?
Yes
Standards Authority
Is there a national or regional standards authority?
Yes
If yes, please identify the appropriate national and/or regional authority.
National:
Regional:
If yes, are the standards adequate/properly enforced?
Yes
Testing Laboratories
Are there national testing laboratories?
Yes
Fuel Quality Testing Laboratory
Company
Rwanda Standard Board (RSB)
Name
Address
PO. Box 7099 Kigali
Telephone and Fax
+250 252 583305
+250 252 582945/586103
Contact
Standards Used
East African Community Standards & ASTM
Disclaimer: Inclusion of company information in the LCA does not imply any business relationship between the supplier and WFP / Logistics Cluster, and is used solely as a determinant of services, and capacities.
Please note: WFP / Logistics Cluster maintain complete impartiality and are not in a position to endorse, comment on any company's suitability as a reputable service provider.
Book Navigation
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Contact
About the LCA tool
© 2025. WFP. Logistics Cluster