Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport | Digital Logistics Capacity Assessments
Skip to main content
Search
Select your language
العربية
中文
English
Français
Português
Русский
Español
Rwanda
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Export to PDF
Home
Show Navigation
Hide Navigation
Rwanda
Rwanda - 1 Country Profile
Rwanda - 1.1 Humanitarian Background
Rwanda - 1.2 Regulatory Departments & Quality Control
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.3 Kamembe National Airport
2.2.4 Rwanda Ruhengeri National Airport
Rwanda - 2.3 Road Network
Rwanda - 2.4 Railway Assessment
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Rwanda - 3.3 Manual Labor
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Rwanda - 4.1 Government Contact List
Rwanda - 4.2 Humanitarian Agency Contact List
Rwanda - 4.3 Laboratory and Quality Testing Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.4 Ports and Waterways Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.8 Transporter Contact List
Rwanda - 4.9 Railway Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.10 Supplier Contact List
Rwanda - 4.11 Additional Services Contact List
5 Rwanda Annexes
Rwanda - 5.1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
Airport Overview
Kigali International Airport (IATA: KGL, ICAO: HRYR), formerly known as Gregoire Kayibanda International Airport, sometimes referred to as Kanombe International Airport, is the main airport serving Kigali, the capital of Rwanda. It is the country's main airport, but it is also of regional importance as it serves Congolese, Burundian and Ugandan cities.
The airport is located on the outskirts of Kanombe, southeast of Kigali, about 5 km from the city center by expressway and about 10km from the central business district of the Rwandan capital.
Located at 1491 meters above sea level, its terminal is one of the highest in the world among international airports. Its 3500-meter runway allows landing of all types of aircraft and has allowed the continuous increase of passenger traffic to the 800 000 passengers who passed through it in 2017.
Kigali airport has three terminals and two heliports. The main terminal was built to replace the smaller building that now serves as a VIP terminal. The third terminal is the cargo terminal, which enjoys great activity due to the isolation of Rwanda. The latest renovations and modernizations of the airport have allowed it to be in 2017 ranked 7th among the best regional airports in Africa for its fire/safety standards and 2nd in Africa for its compliance with ICAO standards.
The topography of Kigali does not allow to extend the capacities of the current airport and the passenger traffic being constantly increasing in Rwanda, a new airport intended to serve the capital and to replace the airport of Kanombe is currently under construction in Bugesera, 40km south of Kigali. The new airport will have only one runway but will have the ability to see a second one built later.
In September 2016, the Rwandan government sealed a partnership with the Portuguese company Mota-Engil Engenharia e Construção África. This company is responsible for the construction and for a 25-year management of the airport. The new airport will have at its inauguration a capacity of 1.7 million passengers per year. This capacity will be expandable to 4.5 million passengers once all infrastructure is completed. In exchange Mota-Engil Engenharia and Construção África will cover the costs of 418 million USD for the first phase and 400 million USD for the second phase, a total investment of 818 million US dollars.
Airport Location and Contact
Country
Rwanda
Province or District
Kigali
Nearest Town or City
with Distance from Airport
Kigali – 05 Km from city centre.
Airport’s Complete Name
Kigali International Airport
Latitude
-1.966389
Longitude
30.13306
Elevation (ft and m)
4,891 ft / 1,491 m
IATA Code
KGL / HRYR
ICAO Code
KGL / HRYR
Managing Company or Airport Authority
Rwanda Airports Authority
Management Contact Person
Emmanuel Gacinya, Director of Rwanda Airports Authority
Open From (hours)
24 hours
Open To (hours)
24 hours
Airport Picture
Description and Contacts of Key Companies
Airport
Company
Name
Title
Kigali International Airport
Flight Management
Yves Tuyishime
Managing Director
Kigali International Airport
Rwandair
Yvonne Manzi Makolo
CEO
Kigali International Airport
Bank of Kigali
Uwineza Polline
Branch Manager
For more information on airport contacts, please see the following link:
4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
.
Information on some aviation service providers can be found at:
http://www.azfreight.com/
Passenger and Cargo Performance Indicator
Kigali, 2 June 2020:  The Kigali International Airport is undergoing expansion works to address congestion issues.  The number of flights to and from the airport has outstripped its optimal capacity, calling for expansion as a short-term solution to the increased number of flights and passengers passing through the airport.
Main sections under renovation include the expansion of arrival terminal, runway strip grading, the apron and service road. The new airport apron – an airport parking – is 53,000 square meters with capacity to accommodate 18 aircraft. Next to it, is a newly completed arrivals terminal for domestic flights, those that are operated by the national carrier to and from local airports like Kamembe in Rusizi or Rubavu, among others.
According to the Minister of infrastructure, Honorable Claver Gatete, the expansion works of the airport kicked off in September as part of the broader efforts to prepare for CHOGM, which was postponed due to the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis.
Runways
The surface, strength and general condition of the parking area is good. There is sufficient lighting, and the markings are clear. Expansion and runway rehabilitation work has been undertaken and the taxiing and parking areas can accommodate a wide range of aircraft types up to a maximum of five aircraft. Access to fuel and unloading is good.
Runway #1
Runway Dimensions
3,500 m X 60 m
Orientation
10/28
Surface
All Weather asphalt to ICAO standards.
Expansion and runway rehabilitation work has been undertaken and the taxiing and parking areas can accommodate a wide range of aircraft types up to a maximum of five aircraft. Access to fuel and unloading is good. There is construction of a new Airport namely Bugesera is underway and its completion anticipated in the near future.
The surface, strength and general condition of the parking area is good. There is sufficient lighting, and the markings are clear. Expansion and runway rehabilitation work has been undertaken and the taxiing and parking areas can accommodate a wide range of aircraft types up to a maximum of five aircraft. Access to fuel and unloading is good.
Helicopter Pad(s)
The surface, strength and general condition of the parking area is good. There is sufficient lighting, and the markings are clear. Expansion and runway rehabilitation work has been undertaken and the taxiing and parking areas can accommodate a wide range of aircraft types up to a maximum of five aircraft. Access to fuel and unloading is good.
Helipad #1
Present
Yes
Largest Helicopter that can Land
Mi-26 (no limit)
Width and Length (m)
Helicopters using KGL are requested to park on the large remote stand.
Surface
Asphalt
The infrastructure changes that are ongoing include improvement and extension of Kigali International Airport and other facilities. The major construction works were put on hold due to COVID – 19 but minor works were completed and there is a change in physical appearance and the capacity of the Airport hence improved aviation services leading to increased growth in Rwanda.
Airport Infrastructure Details
The infrastructure changes that are ongoing include construction, upgrading, improvement and extension of Kigali International Airport and other facilities. All works are progressing well and promising to change the physical appearance and the capacity of the Airport hence improved aviation services leading to increased growth in Rwanda.
The Construction and improvement of works to the existing terminal is being carried out in a fully functional passenger terminal environment by a Switzerland based International Company called ROKO CONSTRUCTION and supervision works are done by SNC-LAVALIN under Rwanda Civil Aviation Authority.
Customs
Yes
JET A-1 fuel
Yes
Immigration
Yes
AVGAS 100
Yes
Terminal Building
Yes
Single Point Refueling
Yes
Passenger Terminal
Yes
Air Starter Units
Yes
Cargo terminal
Yes
Ground Power (mobile)
Yes
Pax Transport to Airfield
Yes
Ground Handling Services
Yes
Control Tower
Yes
Latrine Servicing
Yes
Weather Facilities
Yes
Fire Fighting Category (ICAO)
Yes
Catering Services
Yes
De-icing Equipment
No
Base Operating Room
N/A
Parking Ramp Lighting
Yes
Airport Radar
Yes
Approach & Runway Lights
Yes
NDB
N/A
VOR
Yes
ILS
Yes
Airport Operating Details
Operating Details
Maximum Sized Aircraft that can be Offloaded on Bulk Cargo
B777 or A330
Maximum Sized Aircraft that can be Offloaded on Pallet
No limit
Total Aircraft Parking Area (m²)
58,000 m²
Storage Area (m3 and mt)
1,800 mt
Handling Equipment
Elevators / Hi Loaders
Yes
Max Capacity (mt)
N/A
Max Height
(m)
xx
Loading Ramps
Yes
Other Comments
N/A
Customs Guidance
Goods imported by passengers arriving from places outside the east Africa partner States shall, subject to the limitations and conditions of customs.
Any person arriving in Rwanda is required to make a declaration of all goods or articles in his possession to Customs either verbally, in form 126 Bis or DD COM depending on the value of goods (For 126 Bis, value must be < or = 500.000frw; above that value a DD COM must be established). In case the person denies carrying any goods, Customs officers may, when they have reason to believe that the person concerned does carry dutiable goods:
- Inspect luggage, packages or any parcels carried by the person concerned;
- Perform a search on the person concerned, including anal search;
- If a physical examination is to be carried out, the officer must be satisfied that the person presenting the declaration is the actual owner. If it is owned by more than one passenger, all passengers must be present when conducting the physical examination. If circumstances do not permit the owner to be present, the one that presents the declaration must know the contents and be ready to answer queries that may arise.
Once satisfied that the declaration is correct, the officer should give the travellers the statutory allowances as indicated under the respective regulation. However, should the travellers possess goods beyond the allowances, appropriate duties and taxes must be calculated and collected in prescribed manner.
For more information on customs in Rwanda, please see the following link:
1.3 Customs Information
.
Storage Facilities
Upon arrival of goods at the airport, notice of arrival is given by MAGERWA (Magasin Generaux – “bonded warehouse”) office at the airport to the forwarding agent (F/A) who contacts the consignee. The air waybill is collected from airline and Rwanda air Cargo Office. The F/A completes the customs declaration form with the amount of tax stated with the attached air waybill and commercial invoice.
Additionally, other documents such as a Certificate of Origin are attached and presented to the customs officer who checks the tax calculations and completeness of the documents before payment. Handling charges and storage fees are paid to MAGERWA, and the goods are then released. During emergency situations special arrangements can be made at government offices so that goods can be cleared within 3 days.
Airfield Costs
Navigation Charges
For information on all fees, please see the links below:
https://rac.co.rw/
https://www.caa.gov.rw/
AIR-BRIDGE CHARGES
There are no air bridges in Rwanda.
Security
Security is good both inside and around the terminal. Inside the terminal, the airport security personnel have radio communication and passenger, and luggage screening equipment are well placed. The personnel and luggage screening equipment are positioned in two locations for double screening of passengers and handheld bags.
Outside the terminal, security personnel and police patrol within the periphery of the airport compound and are stationed at the entrance to the airport and vehicles are directed to park at a distance from the terminal. There is a public address system in use to announce flight situations and this system could be utilised for security related events.
Rwanda Bugesera International Airport under Construction since 2017
Bugesera International Airport is an airport project in Rwanda. The USD818 million airport will be located 25km southeast of Kigali. The airport will feature a 4200m runway and have capacity for 1.7 million passenger’s p/a following the completion of first phase works. Total construction is expected to be complete by 2022 and will include the runway, cargo terminal and passenger terminal with capacity for 4.5 million passengers p/a. Mota Engil Engenharia e Construcao Africa SA replaced China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) as the key contractor for the project. Construction commenced in 2017.
Book Navigation
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Contact
About the LCA tool
© 2025. WFP. Logistics Cluster