Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure | Digital Logistics Capacity Assessments
Skip to main content
Search
Select your language
العربية
中文
English
Français
Português
Русский
Español
Rwanda
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Export to PDF
Home
Show Navigation
Hide Navigation
Rwanda
Rwanda - 1 Country Profile
Rwanda - 1.1 Humanitarian Background
Rwanda - 1.2 Regulatory Departments & Quality Control
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.3 Kamembe National Airport
2.2.4 Rwanda Ruhengeri National Airport
Rwanda - 2.3 Road Network
Rwanda - 2.4 Railway Assessment
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Rwanda - 3.3 Manual Labor
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Rwanda - 4.1 Government Contact List
Rwanda - 4.2 Humanitarian Agency Contact List
Rwanda - 4.3 Laboratory and Quality Testing Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.4 Ports and Waterways Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.8 Transporter Contact List
Rwanda - 4.9 Railway Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.10 Supplier Contact List
Rwanda - 4.11 Additional Services Contact List
5 Rwanda Annexes
Rwanda - 5.1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda’s transport system centres primarily on their road network, with tarmacked roads mostly in towns. The government continues to improve the transport sector and increase the road network from urban to rural areas by focusing on 6 secondary cities to support the main Kigali city. In 2022, 1532.47km of unpaved roads were paved, and 737.86km on newly paved roads were built in Kigali and 6 secondary cities. At least 3,456.36km of feeder roads were cumulatively rehabilitated up to the end of 2020/2021 fiscal year. The country is linked with other countries in East Africa by road, by which the majority of imports and exports are transported. On the other hand, some of the exports and imports are carried by using air transport.
Rwanda’s main air gateway is Kigali International Airport, located at Kanombe, a suburb approximately 10 km from the Kigali town centre. The airport has international flights to Entebbe, Nairobi, Addis Ababa, Johannesburg, Bujumbura, Mwanza, Dubai, Dar Es Salaam, Lagos, Douala, Mombasa, Doha, Brussels, Harare, Lusaka, Brazaville, Abuja, Libreville, Bangui, Amsterdam, Goma, Cairo, Kinshasa, Istanbul and Accra and is the main airport for RwandAir, the national carrier. The plan for constructing a new airport in Bugesera district, approximately 28 km from Kigali is in advanced stage. Building activities has already begun. This new airport was constructed on an area of 25.6 km2 with the paved runway length of 4,206KM enough to serve the entire region. The other airport with passenger service is Kamembe Airport, located in the Kamembe town in Rusizi. Mainly the aviation companies that operate in Rwanda are Rwanda Air, Auric Air, KLM, Ethiopian Airlines, Egyptair, SN Brussels lines, Turkish Airlines, Coastal Aviation, Kenya Airways, China postal lines, Qatar Airways.
There are plans to further extend Rwanda’s economic integration after being granted a 20-hectare plot at the port of Djibouti in 2013. The port, included in the free zones of Djibouti, will be operated as a strategic base for Rwanda’s exports and imports to the Middle East.
Water transport, especially on Kivu Lake, is another means of transport for passengers and goods particularly linking Rusizi, Kibuye and Rubavu with DRC. Other water transport in Rwanda is feasible in lakes Muhazi, Burera, and Ruhondo using motorboats. There are still limited capacities in air/water transport in terms of skilled manpower, lack of infrastructure, and modern equipment, which continues to be a hindrance to better quality service provision and regional market penetration.
Storage facilities are available in the country in various capacities. Facilities in Kigali are more expensive than in most provincial towns. Most storage facilities are privately owned with some few public ones, some of which have been constructed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRI). Access to storage facilities is limited to trucks. Handling of commodities for loose cargo is manual. The availability of reliable storage varies, depending on utilization by owners of facilities or other clients.
Further, the government has built and is still building modern storage facilities in Kigali and provinces. By the help of private sector, there is availability of storage facilities.
Book Navigation
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Contact
About the LCA tool
© 2025. WFP. Logistics Cluster