Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment | Digital Logistics Capacity Assessments
Skip to main content
Search
Select your language
العربية
中文
English
Français
Português
Русский
Español
Rwanda
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Export to PDF
Home
Show Navigation
Hide Navigation
Rwanda
Rwanda - 1 Country Profile
Rwanda - 1.1 Humanitarian Background
Rwanda - 1.2 Regulatory Departments & Quality Control
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.3 Kamembe National Airport
2.2.4 Rwanda Ruhengeri National Airport
Rwanda - 2.3 Road Network
Rwanda - 2.4 Railway Assessment
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Rwanda - 3.3 Manual Labor
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Rwanda - 4.1 Government Contact List
Rwanda - 4.2 Humanitarian Agency Contact List
Rwanda - 4.3 Laboratory and Quality Testing Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.4 Ports and Waterways Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.8 Transporter Contact List
Rwanda - 4.9 Railway Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.10 Supplier Contact List
Rwanda - 4.11 Additional Services Contact List
5 Rwanda Annexes
Rwanda - 5.1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
Availability
Rwanda established Kigali Special Economic Zone (KSEZ) as an industrial zone where logistical infrastructure are constructed. Storage facilities are available in the country in various capacities. Facilities in Kigali are more expensive than in most other towns but also more suited as storage facilities. Most storage facilities are privately owned with some few public ones, some of which have been constructed by the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI). Access to storage facilities is limited to trucks. Handling of commodities for loose cargo is mostly manual, and mechanized handling is limited to few bigger storage facilities. The availability of reliable storage varies, depending on utilization by owners of facilities or other clients.
For more information on storage company contact details, please see the following link:
4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
.
Commercial Storage
There are a couple of commercial private storage facilities in Kigali City namely EAX, ZARA, TRANSPAPER, DPWORLD, ADR Millers, ENAS, John Nabirinda, Seminega Jean Bosco, MAGERWA and many other warehouses. Outside of Kigali, well established storage facilities are owned by ENAS in Kirehe District and WIM Ltd in Musanze district. Pembe Flour Mills have established a new flour mill in the town (close to the football stadium) that has clean and secure storage for about 12,000 Mt and space is available for rental should it be required.
Bollore Logistics also owns 20,000sqm of rentable warehousing; however, it is also acting as a custom bonded warehouse, which is also customs bonded. The average cost of warehouse rent in Kigali is US$5/SQM negotiable.
Location
Owner
Available for Rent
Capacity
(MT / m² / m³)
Type
Access
Condition
Economic Free Zone
John Nabirinda
Yes
1850 m2
Warehouse
Yes
Good
Nyandungu 12
Nkubili-ENAS
Yes
2000 m2+ 1500 m2
Warehouse
Yes
Good
Economic Free Zone
Seminega Jean Bosco
Yes
1400 m2 + 600 m2
Warehouse
Yes
Good
Economic Free Zone
Soft Packaging Ltd
Yes
2500m2
Warehouse
Yes
Good
Storage Used by Humanitarian Organizations
WFP Rwanda has a main warehouse facility located in Kigali which covers two compounds and two permanent buildings plus 10 rub halls and is accessible by road transport. Through its partner ADRA, UNHCR is utilizing a warehouse in Gikondo owned by MAGERWA and a Logistics Base at Kicukiro Industrial Park in Gahanga. WFP CO is also providing warehousing through service provision to UNICEF and UNHCR whilst warehouse facilities to MINEMA are provided as a part of capacity strengthening through a Memorandum of understanding.
Public Sector Storage- Information not available immediately
Cold Chain
Rwanda Revenue Authority has a cold chain facility at the airport Cargo section, but capacity is limited as it is the only one in the country which can be used by the public/commercial sector. DP world Kigali is in Cyimo, Masaka, Kigali and its cold storage is 500sqm that enables smarter trade and reduces logistics costs by attracting investment and offering companies new options for their stored imports and exports. DP world has an annual capacity of 50,000 TEUs and 19,000 sqm bonded warehouse capacity making it one of the biggest logistics hubs in East Africa (DP World, 2020).
Further, DP World operates cold storage facility for commercial use and exports of agricultural produce through NAEB (National Agriculture Development Export Board).
Book Navigation
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Contact
About the LCA tool
© 2025. WFP. Logistics Cluster