Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation | Digital Logistics Capacity Assessments
Skip to main content
Search
Select your language
العربية
中文
English
Français
Português
Русский
Español
Rwanda
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Export to PDF
Home
Show Navigation
Hide Navigation
Rwanda
Rwanda - 1 Country Profile
Rwanda - 1.1 Humanitarian Background
Rwanda - 1.2 Regulatory Departments & Quality Control
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.3 Kamembe National Airport
2.2.4 Rwanda Ruhengeri National Airport
Rwanda - 2.3 Road Network
Rwanda - 2.4 Railway Assessment
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Rwanda - 3.3 Manual Labor
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Rwanda - 4.1 Government Contact List
Rwanda - 4.2 Humanitarian Agency Contact List
Rwanda - 4.3 Laboratory and Quality Testing Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.4 Ports and Waterways Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.8 Transporter Contact List
Rwanda - 4.9 Railway Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.10 Supplier Contact List
Rwanda - 4.11 Additional Services Contact List
5 Rwanda Annexes
Rwanda - 5.1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
Aviation
Key airport information may also be found at:
https://www.caa.gov.rw/&nbsp
;
Rwanda being a relatively small country in terms of area and with relatively good quality roads there is not much requirement for many regional airports. Additionally, being such a hilly country there is little flat land.
The aviation sector in Rwanda has seen massive growth over the recent years. The sector is regulated by the Rwanda Civil Aviation Authority (RCAA) which manages all aspects of civil aviation in the country. In the recent past, the institution has undergone legal reforms which have greatly impacted the execution of its operations in ensuring safety, security, and infrastructural development.
Kigali International Airport (KIA), formerly known as Gregoire Kayibanda International Airport, is the primary airport serving Kigali, and the only international airport in the country. It is the main air gateway for all destinations in the country, and in addition serves as a transit airport for Goma and Bukavu in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. The airport is in the suburb of Kanombe, at the eastern edge of Kigali, approximately 12 km from the city centre.
There has been significant growth in air traffic with the introduction of a number of international airlines to the country. KIA is undergoing expansion to meet the midterm additional capacity requirements. For the longer term, construction is currently underway for construction of a world class international airport – New Bugesera International Airport (NBIA) - which will be located some 40 km from Kigali.
Domestic air transport is very limited. Regular flights are conducted to Kamembe Airport, while Gisenyi aerodrome is being upgraded.
For a list of the airports in Rwanda with details on each, please see the following attachment:
List of Rwanda Airports
RwandAir, the national carrier, has in the recent past acquired new aircraft and operates on many routes in Africa and United Arab Emirates. Other airlines operating flights to Kigali include Kenya Airways, Ethiopian Airlines, SN Brussels Airline, Qatar Airways, Turkish Airlines, and China Postal Airlines.
New Bugesera International Airport (NBIA)
Bugesera International Airport is being constructed to accommodate the growth of air traffic in Rwanda. The project will cost approximately US $650 million and will be located 25 km southeast of Kigali. The airport will have capacity for three million passengers per year. The first phase of construction will include the runway of 4,200 m, a cargo terminal and a passenger terminal with capacity for 1.8 million passengers per year.
National Airports
Due to COVID –19, the upgrading of the Airports was delayed hence the situation remains the same as 2016.The domestic airports of Kamembe and Gisenyi/Rubavu, located in the South and Southwest of Rwanda, respectively, it was reported by Rwanda Airports authority that minor rehabilitation works were carried out. The two airports will boost tourism in the mountains for the gorillas and volcanoes and connect the country to Goma in DRC. For more information, please see below.
Rwandan Flyer Website, for more information on government agency and airport company contact information, please see the following links: HQ staff will input a link to sections 4.1 Government Contact List and 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List here.
Procedures for Foreign Registered Aircraft
A. company which wishes to register an aircraft in Rwanda shall apply to the RCAA for aircraft
registration by submitting a duly completed prescribed application form to the RCAA.
B. Application for aircraft registration is accepted only for aircraft of a type that is acceptable to
the RCAA.
Additional Documentation to be Submitted
A. It is required on application for aircraft registration to submit to the RCAA the full specification
of the aircraft including—
1) The full description of the type, model and serial number;
2) Type certificate data sheet;
3) Supplementary type certificate data, if any;
4) Make and part numbers of avionics and equipment installed;
5) Airworthiness Directives (ADs) status report;
6) Copy of the current Certificate of Registration, if applicable;
Procedures and relevant forms for utilisation of the following services are explained on the
RCAA website
. These include:
Over Flight & Landing Clearance
Airport Restricted Areas Form
Cargo Access Form
Procedures for Clearance of Human Remains
Airport Visit and Tour Notice
When all the application and documentation is presented the process according to RCAA should take about 1 to 3 days. RCAA also provides for emergency landing upon advance notification.
For RCAA contact information, please see the following attachment:
Rwanda Civil Aviation Authority Contact Information
For Rwanda Aviation contact details, please see the following link:
4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
.
Book Navigation
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Contact
About the LCA tool
© 2025. WFP. Logistics Cluster