Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services | Digital Logistics Capacity Assessments
Skip to main content
Search
Select your language
العربية
中文
English
Français
Português
Русский
Español
Rwanda
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
Export to PDF
Home
Show Navigation
Hide Navigation
Rwanda
Rwanda - 1 Country Profile
Rwanda - 1.1 Humanitarian Background
Rwanda - 1.2 Regulatory Departments & Quality Control
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.3 Kamembe National Airport
2.2.4 Rwanda Ruhengeri National Airport
Rwanda - 2.3 Road Network
Rwanda - 2.4 Railway Assessment
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Rwanda - 3.3 Manual Labor
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Rwanda - 4.1 Government Contact List
Rwanda - 4.2 Humanitarian Agency Contact List
Rwanda - 4.3 Laboratory and Quality Testing Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.4 Ports and Waterways Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.8 Transporter Contact List
Rwanda - 4.9 Railway Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.10 Supplier Contact List
Rwanda - 4.11 Additional Services Contact List
5 Rwanda Annexes
Rwanda - 5.1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
Overview
There is a range of service providers, albeit limited for specific types of services in Kigali in particular and a few in other large towns of Rwanda. Some specific areas include light vehicle hire and purchase, handling equipment, clearing and forwarding, movers, supply of plastic sheeting, tarpaulin sheets, tents, assembling of Mobile storage units, pest control. Specific issues are mentioned in each of the subsection below.
With regard to transport of personnel, there are local representatives of Toyota, Nissan, Isuzi and Suzuki types of vehicles, who are able to supply brand new vehicles.  There are also a few garages to provide vehicle maintenance and repair services.
Accommodation
The housing market is very competitive at the moment, and in all residential areas, most houses would meet the minimum criteria required for UN Agencies. In addition, there are serviced apartments, hotels and guest houses available. The available facilities would be able to support a large influx of demand.
Electricity and Power
MINIFRA is responsible for putting in place policies and the strategy of the energy sector and for directing the developments of the electricity sub-sector, whereas the Energy and Water and Sanitation Authority (EWSA), a semi-parastatal, is responsible for electricity generation, bulk transmission and distribution and retailing functions on a commercial basis.
The Rwanda Utilities and Regulatory Authority (RURA) regulates the energy sector, and is involved in policy formulation, protection of consumers, and approving contractual activities amongst others.
In October 2013, the government approved the split of EWSA into the Energy Holding Company, which will manage energy development and electricity whereas the Water and Sanitation Company will manage water resources and distribution in the country.
Electricity in Rwanda is a combination of hydro-electric, oil fired thermal and solar generation which is supplemented with electricity imported from the Ruzizi in DRC 1 & 2 generation plants. Electricity is also imported from Uganda to supply areas in the north along the Ugandan border. The generation capacity of the hydro plants is determined by the water levels of dams during dry periods.
The electricity sector has seen very high growth over the recent years, the current target under the Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy for 2013–18 (EDPRS 2) is 70 percent of households to be connected to the electrical grid by 2017. Rwanda is targeting to generate 563 MW by 2018 while the current generation capacity is about 191 MW. Rwanda consumes only 25.91kWh/year/person (as of 2014) much lower than the average of the sub-Saharan Africa (Source:
http://www.indexmundi.com/g/r.aspx?v=81000
). Despite the improvements resulting from investments in the energy sector, power outage is still common particularly in areas outside of Kigali. As a result power rationing is exercised by Rwanda Energy Group (REG)
More info on the electricity and Power in Rwanda:
Rwanda Development Board Website
Electricity and Power Summary Table
Production Unit
Type
(Hydroelectric, Thermal, etc.)
Installed
Capacity (MW)
Current Production (MW)
Ntaruka
11.25
1.2
Mukungwa
12.0
5.0
Rukarara
9
Others (Gihira, Gisenyi, Nkora, Cymbili, Keya, Mazimeru, Rugezi)
9
Jabana (Heavy Fuel Oil)
Hydroelectric
20
6.0
Jabana (Diesel)
Hydroelectric
7.8
6.0
(Aggreko) Gikondo (Rental Thermal Power)
In-house Thermal
14
14
Kibuye (Methane to Power)
In-house Thermal
25
25
Ruzizi 1
Rental power
3.5
Ruzizi 2
Rental power
12
8 – 12
Kabale (Uganda)
Rental power
1
0.2
Imported Hydro Power
16.5
Kigali Solar Power
10.9
10.9
The Rusumo Falls project of 80 MW capacity will increase renewable power generating capacity and access to electricity in Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi. Construction of the transmission facilities is expected to be completed by August 2018; the three countries will share the power generated equally.
More information can be obtained at:
Rusumo Hydroelectric Project
Photo: Construction works at the KivuWatt plant
With respect costs, new tariff structure as of September 2015 is as follows:
The electricity tariff increased by 35 per cent for low voltage users, including residential and non-residential customers, where the price will go up from Rwf134 per Kilowatt/hour to Rwf182 per kilowatt/hour. For the medium voltage rates (industrial customers), the tariff will remain at Rwf126 per kilowatt/hour.
The new tariffs do not include VAT. Web site:
Rwanda Energy Group Website
Taxi Companies
Car hire operators are available in Kigali and in major town. Although they may be contracted individually, they are all registered in Cooperatives. A taxi drivers’ Association at Kigali International airport (ATAK) provides transport from the airport to different parts of Kigali town at an estimated cost of US$20 or Rwf10,000 per trip. Other companies have their offices near the airport and are offering good services from the airport to outside the Kigali town at about Rwf 1500 for the first km and Rwf 500 for every extra km covered.
Express Taxis run to a set timetable (usually hourly) between major towns, generally Kigali and a major regional centre. The taxis are run by a company (Sotra Tours, Atraco, Stella, Volcanoes Express, Virunga, Trans2000, Omega Car and Muhabura Travel) and issue tickets in advance with a set price. Like stopping taxis, these are minibuses and seat 18 passengers, but they depart on time and do not stop until they reach their destination, except to set people down.
Express taxis are quite a recent phenomenon, but are gaining rapidly in popularity as they provide people the security of arriving at a known time. More destinations are being added over time, and most routes sell out considerably in advance of the departure time. Passengers wishing to alight before the end terminus can do so, but have to pay the full ticket price anyway. The price of tickets on Express taxis is similar to the price of a stopping taxi over the same distance.
Information on public transport in Kigali can be found on the following link:
Kigali City Website
International public transport:
There are several daily coach services from Rwanda to destinations in the Africa Great Lakes (Source:
Wikipedia website for Transport in Rwanda
)
Jaguar Executive Coaches which connects Kigali to Kampala, via Gatuna border or via Kagitumba border.
Regional Coaches Services, which runs services to Kampala (8 hours), Nairobi, Kenya (20 hours) and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania (36 hours), all via the Gatuna border except Tanzania which uses Rusumo border. These buses are usually air-conditioned.
Trinity Coach: a Rwandan service, running between Kigali and Kampala.
The transport price from Kigali to Kampala varies from 8,000 to 10,000 Rwanda Francs (Rwf) per person depending on the planned hours for travelling.
TAKWA coach links Kigali to Dar-es-Salam on daily basis at 32,000 rwf per person.
SIMBA and Kampala Coaches are regularly running from Kigali to Nairobi with an individual transport cost fixed at 27,000 rwf.
Volcano Express: minibus service running Kigali and Bujumbura, Burundi at a cost of 6,000 rwf. This service has been subject to ambush in the past by rebels in Burundi.
Vehicle Rental
There is only one internationally recognised car rental agency in Rwanda, based at Kigali Airport.
Disclaimer: Inclusion of company information in the LCA does not imply any business relationship between the supplier and WFP / Logistics Cluster, and is used solely as a determinant of services, and capacities.
Please note: WFP / Logistics Cluster maintain complete impartiality and are not in a position to endorse, comment on any company's suitability as a reputable service provider.
Book Navigation
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Contact
About the LCA tool
© 2025. WFP. Logistics Cluster