3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers | Digital Logistics Capacity Assessments
Skip to main content
Search
Select your language
العربية
中文
English
Français
Português
Русский
Español
Rwanda
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Export to PDF
Home
Show Navigation
Hide Navigation
Rwanda
Rwanda - 1 Country Profile
Rwanda - 1.1 Humanitarian Background
Rwanda - 1.2 Regulatory Departments & Quality Control
Rwanda - 1.3 Customs Information
Rwanda - 2 Logistics Infrastructure
Rwanda - 2.1 Port Assessment
Rwanda - 2.2 Aviation
Rwanda - 2.2.1 Kigali International Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.2 Gisenyi/Rubavu National Airport
Rwanda - 2.2.3 Kamembe National Airport
2.2.4 Rwanda Ruhengeri National Airport
Rwanda - 2.3 Road Network
Rwanda - 2.4 Railway Assessment
Rwanda - 2.5 Waterways Assessment
Rwanda - 2.6 Storage Assessment
Rwanda - 2.7 Milling Assessment
Rwanda - 3 Logistics Services
Rwanda - 3.1 Fuel
Rwanda - 3.2 Transporters
Rwanda - 3.3 Manual Labor
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
3.5 Rwanda Food and Additional Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Rwanda - 3.6 Rwanda Additional Services
4 Rwanda Contact Lists
Rwanda - 4.1 Government Contact List
Rwanda - 4.2 Humanitarian Agency Contact List
Rwanda - 4.3 Laboratory and Quality Testing Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.4 Ports and Waterways Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.5 Airport Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.6 Storage and Milling Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.8 Transporter Contact List
Rwanda - 4.9 Railway Companies Contact List
Rwanda - 4.10 Supplier Contact List
Rwanda - 4.11 Additional Services Contact List
5 Rwanda Annexes
Rwanda - 5.1 Acronyms and Abbreviations
According to the Rwanda Agricultural Sector Situational Analysis
Report (IPAR, 2009), local food production was expected to meet 91%
domestic consumption for the year 2012. It is estimated that two
thirds of Rwandan households’ food production is consumed within
the family. The Government encourages all smallholder households to
retain one-third of their production for own consumption. Land is
the most binding constraint to production, with
78.5
%
of the country’s total land surface being
used for agriculture, indicating severe scarcity of this critical
production factor. Rwanda therefore remains a food-deficit country,
importing on average 130,000 mt of food per year. High population
growth, averaging 2.9
%
per year, and modest
income gains have fueled an increasing demand for food which has
exceeded production gains.
However according to the Ministry of Agriculture MINAGRI
statistics, production of food crops has increased dramatically
over the years owing to good agricultural policies. Maize
production has increased. However, the findings from the 2015
Comprehensive Food security and Vulnerably Assessment revealed a
trade deficit in cereals between 2013 and 2014 where there was more
cereals imported than exported.
Food crops are mainly imported from Uganda to meet demand not
met by local production. Maize is the main food import. Wholesale
prices of maize and beans are sustained by flow of import of Uganda
and the United Republic of Tanzania.
Key trading markets in Rwanda include the Nyabugogo Market,
which is the main wholesale market for food crops. Each of the
country’s 30 districts has main food markets, with the Kimironko
and Nyarugenge markets being the other main markets in Kigali.
Main Food Suppliers
Maize, Beans and Sorghum are the most consumed food crops that
can be found in bulk in Rwanda.  In the year 2012, market
surpluses of 227,500 mt of beans and 341, 250 mt Maize were
recorded. Most of the maize meal locally produced is exported
into DRC, with domestic demand standing at 80,000 mt per year.
Production of small mills and main milling plant MINIMEX stands at
72,000 mt per year.
The maize and beans value chain are comprised of several stages
and actors. The main actors in the maize and beans value chains are
farmers, traders (distributors, wholesalers and retailers), millers
and consumers.
The private sector commodity trade is dominated by a few
relatively large local buyers and agro processors.. The major three
importers of cereals were Bakhresa Grain Milling (Rwanda) Limited;
Pembe flour mills (Rwanda); SARL, which is a processor; and
MINAGRIm which focuses on whole grains and rebuilding the national
strategic grain reserve.
Through the Clinton Health Access Initiative, there are plans to
set up a Corn Soya Blend manufacturing plant. Production is
expected to commence in September 2016. Currently, Corn Soya Blend
is mostly imported from South Africa and Europe. A local company,
SOSOMA Industries Limited,
supplies blended food
to the government on a small scale.
Sugar Production barely meets local demand. Kabuye Sugar Works
is Rwanda’s sole sugar maker, producing about 30 per cent of the
market supply. The factory currently produces 10,000 mt of sugar
annually. (Source:
Institute of Policy
Analysis and Research - Rwanda
)
Generic country information can be located from sources which
are regularly maintained and reflect current facts and figures. For
a general overview of country data related to the service and
supply sectors, please consult the following links:
The Observatory of
Economic Complexity – MIT (OEC) Information on
Rwanda
National
Institute of Statistics of Rwanda
USAID Food
Assistance Fact Sheet-Rwanda
For contact information on suppliers in Rwanda, please see
the following link:
4.9 Rwanda
Supplier Contact List
Disclaimer: Inclusion of company information in the
LCA does not imply any business relationship between the supplier
and WFP / Logistics Cluster, and is used solely as a determinant of
services, and capacities. Please note: WFP / Logistics Cluster
maintain complete impartiality and are not in a position to
endorse, comment on any company's suitability as a reputable
service provider.
Book Navigation
Rwanda - 3.4 Telecommunications
Rwanda - 3.5.1 Food Suppliers
Contact
About the LCA tool
© 2025. WFP. Logistics Cluster